external signer docs (#25281)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/references/cli/external-signers.mdx

---
title: Sui CLI External Signers
description: Use external signers like Ledger and Yubikey with the Sui CLI.
keywords: [sui cli, external signers, ledger, yubikey, hardware wallet, security]
---

> The Sui CLI supports external signers through implementations found in the [Rust Signers repository](https://github.com/MystenLabs/rust-signers). These integration tools allow you to sign transactions using hardware devices, enhancing security by keeping private keys off your local machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sui CLI supports external signers through implementations found in the [Rust Signers repository](https://github.com/MystenLabs/rust-signers). These integration tools enable signing transactions using hardware devices, enhancing security by keeping private keys off your local machine.
```

# Architecture
```mermaid
graph TD
    %% Node Styling
    classDef cli fill:#3b82f6,stroke:#1d4ed8,color:white,rx:4,ry:4,stroke-width:2px,font-weight:bold
    classDef signer fill:#10b981,stroke:#047857,color:white,rx:4,ry:4,stroke-width:2px,font-weight:bold
    classDef pipe fill:#f1f5f9,stroke:#64748b,color:#334155,rx:10,ry:10,stroke-width:2px,stroke-dasharray: 5 5

    %% Nodes
    CLI[Sui CLI]:::cli
    channel(JSON RPC Object<br/>via stdin/stdout pipe):::pipe

    %% Signers Group
    subgraph Signers [External Signers]
        direction LR
        L[ledger-signer]:::signer
        Y[yubikey-signer]:::signer
        A[aws-signer]:::signer
    end

    %% Connections
    CLI ==> channel
    channel --> L
    channel --> Y
    channel --> A

    %% Link Styling
    linkStyle 0 stroke:#64748b,stroke-width:4px
    linkStyle 1,2,3 stroke:#94a3b8,stroke-width:2px
```

> ## Supported Devices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Supported devices
```

> - **[Ledger Hardware Wallets](https://github.com/MystenLabs/rust-signers/tree/main/ledger)**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[Ledger hardware wallets](https://github.com/MystenLabs/rust-signers/tree/main/ledger)**
```

> - **[Yubikey Devices](https://github.com/MystenLabs/rust-signers/tree/main/yubikey)** (experimental)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[Yubikey devices](https://github.com/MystenLabs/rust-signers/tree/main/yubikey)** (experimental)
```

> - **[Yubikey Devices](https://github.com/MystenLabs/rust-signers/tree/main/yubikey)** (experimental)

Reviewer: Is this still experimental?

Author: I made it less dangerous for now. but it still needs some options CLI options so you can either generate a mnemonic or do the dangerous key generation on device. I think I'll drop (experimental) though.

Reviewer: It's fine keeping experimental, was just curious where it's at.

## Installation

You can install the external signer binaries from the [Releases page](https://github.com/mystenlabs/rust-signers/releases) or build them from source.

> 

Reviewer: They are now part of `suiup` too, so we should add that.

Reviewer: Btw, do you think it should also go into the two README files in `rust-signers` repository?

Author: definitely, I'll keep both in sync

Author: updated the rust-signers readmes

> ### From Source

Reviewer: Do we need to add any kind of prerequisites, e.g., Rust?

```bash
git clone git@github.com:MystenLabs/rust-signers.git
cd rust-signers
# Install Ledger signer
cargo install --path ledger
# Install Yubikey signer
cargo install --path yubikey

> ```

Reviewer: Would it make sense to also add `cargo install --locked --git https://github.com/MystenLabs/rust-signers --bin ledger --bin yubikey`?  Maybe even replacing it?

Ensure the installed binaries (`ledger-signer`, `yubikey-signer`) are in your system's `PATH`.

> ## Commands

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Usage
```

> External signers are managed through the `sui external-keys` command.

Reviewer: Should we add some information here when was this first available, with which version of the CLI?

```bash
$ sui external-keys --help
```

> ## Common Usage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The following examples demonstrate how to manage keys and sign transactions using an external signer. Replace `<signer-binary>` with `ledger-signer` or `yubikey-signer` depending on your device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following examples demonstrate how to manage keys and sign transactions using an external signer. Replace `<SIGNER_BINARY>` with `ledger-signer` or `yubikey-signer` depending on your device.
```

### List available keys

View the keys available on your connected device.

```bash

> $ sui external-keys list-keys <signer-binary>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ sui external-keys list-keys <SIGNER_BINARY>
```

```

### Add a key

Add a specific key to your Sui keystore. You can specify the key by its ID found in the `list-keys` output. The format of the ID depends on the signer implementation:

- **Ledger**: Derivation path (e.g., `m/44'/784'/0'/0'/0'`)
- **Yubikey**: Yubikey slot (e.g., `retired slot 1` or a specific slot ID)

```bash

> $ sui external-keys add-existing "<key-id>" <signer-binary>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ sui external-keys add-existing "<KEY_ID>" <SIGNER_BINARY>
```

```

Signers generally support creating new keys directly:

```bash

> $ sui external-keys generate <signer-binary>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ sui external-keys generate <SIGNER_BINARY>
```

```

### Sign a transaction

Once the key is added to your keystore, you can use it just like any other key. Switch to the address associated with the external key, and the Sui CLI will automatically delegate signing to the device.

```bash
# Switch to the new address

> $ sui client switch --address [sui-address]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ sui client switch --address [SUI_ADDRESS]
```

# Perform a transaction

> $ sui client transfer --object-id [object-id] --to [to-address]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ sui client transfer --object-id [OBJECT_ID] --to [TO_ADDRESS]
```
